# Welcome to the DataBaits source code 


## How to run the DataBaits 
As of now, the statistics to be used in our databaits are in a file called src/calculate_statistics.py.
Each databait is generated by a function called generate_databait_[#](), which each takes in different arguments. 
The arguments are specified in the function description. 
Common arguments shared among DataBaits are df (the Pandas DataFrame to import) and time_column (the name of the column with time data).  
For now, you can run the DataBaits by writing function calls in the main method of calculate_statistics.py. 
We are working on writing test files that will automatically execute all of them. 


## Sample function calls  
<b>DataBait 1</b>

Function call: generate_databait_1(df, "University", "Brown University", "JoinYear"))

Returns: {'label': 'Brown University', 'rate': 146.15384615384613, 'time_range': 25}

Sentence: CS professors hired by Brown University increased 146% in the past 25 years.

<b>DataBait 2</b>

Function call: generate_databait_2(df, "University", "Brown University", "Carnegie Mellon University", "JoinYear"))

Returns: {'bigger_label': 'Carnegie Mellon University', 'smaller_label': 'Brown University', 'rate': 63.045912653975364, 'time_range': 25}

Sentence: The total number of CS professors hired by Carnegie Mellon University grew more 63% than for Brown University in the past 25 years. 


<b>DataBait 3</b>

Function call: generate_databait_3(df, "University", "Brown University", "SubField", "Databases", "JoinYear"))

Returns: {'label1': 'Brown University', 'label2': 'Databases', 'rate': 200.0, 'time_range': 20}

Sentence: The number of CS professors hired by Brown University who specialize in Databases grew 200% in the last 20 years. 

<b>DataBait 4</b>

Function call: generate_databait_4(df, "SubField", "Databases", "University", "Brown University", "Carnegie Mellon University", "JoinYear")

Returns: {shared_label': 'Databases', 'column1': 'SubField', 'bigger_label': 'Carnegie Mellon University', 'smaller_label': 'Brown University', 'column2': 'University', 'rate': 100.0, 'time_range': 10}

Sentence: The number of CS professors who specialize in Databases hired by Carnegie Mellon University grew 100% more in the past 10 years than that of those hired by Brown University. 

<b>DataBait 5</b>

Function call: generate_databait_5(df, "University", "JoinYear"))

Returns: {'max_label': 'Carnegie Mellon University', 'column': 'University', 'rate': 354.18894830659536, 'time_range': 25}

Sentence: The number of CS professors hired by Carnegie Mellon University in the past 25 years was 354% greater than the number of those hired by the average university. 

<b>DataBait 6</b>

Function call: generate_databait_6(df, "University", "JoinYear"))

Returns: {'proportion': 6.779661016949152, 'column': 'University', 'time_range': 5, 'max_label': 'Carnegie Mellon University'}

Sentence: 6.78% of the hires in CS professors in the past 5 years comes from Carnegie Mellon University. 

<b>DataBait 7</b>

Function call: generate_databait_7(df, "SubField", "Artificial Intelligence", "JoinYear", "IBM's Deep Blue beat Garry Kasparov", 1997)

Returns: {'label': 'Artificial Intelligence', 'event': "IBM's Deep Blue beat Garry Kasparov", 'year': 1997, 'latest_year': 2016, 'rate': -83.33333333333334}

Sentence: The total number of CS professors specializing in Artificial Intelligence hired in 2016 decreased 83% from that in 1997, when IBM's Deep Blue beat Gary Kasparov. 

<b>DataBait 8</b>

Function call: generate_databait_8(df, "Bachelors", "Doctorate"))

Returns: {'proportion': 11.551862771374967, 'column1': 'Bachelors', 'column2': 'Doctorate'}

Sentence: 11.55% of CS professors went to the same university for their Bachelor's degrees as for their Doctorate degrees. 
